Born to the daughter of a wealthy Tashalar wine merchant and her travelling
bard lover (from a line that had distant doppelganger lineage), Amondal Reeve
was thought sickly due to her pale skin, colorless eyes, and small formless
nose. After seeing the visage of their child, Amondal's parents left without
warning, leaving her in the care of her wealthy grandfather Doron Reeve.
Despite her strange appearance the old man loved her greatly and doted on her
obsessively for eight years. One day when she fell ill, and the local healers
were unable to help and recommended that they travel to Baulder's Gate for
treatment at a temple. Turning over the care of the family estate to his son
Yurik, Doron started to arrange a trip to the city.

Doron hired a servant that could help disguise Amondal, so that she could
journey outside of the estate without being shunned. During the voyage to the
city, she enjoyed spending her time on the deck of the ship, learning bits and
pieces of information from the sailors. Upon their arrival at the Gray Harbor,
Doron procured a carriage to Upper City, and found suitable lodgings at an inn
(Three Old Kegs). While the servants helped her settle into the room, her
grandfather sent a messenger to the temple to request an audience with one of
the healers.

The next day Amondal was taken to the temple, where the healer was able to cure
her illness. However, upon further inspection it was clear that the healing
made no change to her strange visage. Despite the disappointment that she would
not look normal, Doron decided to cheer her up with a shopping spree. They
travelled around the lower city, visiting a variety of different merchants,
bakeries, and sweet shops.

Toward the end of the day, the carriage driver indicated that they should head
back to the Inn to drop off the large quantity of packages. Amonal's
grandfather decided he wanted to make one more stop at one of the Taverns that
he had frequent dealings with and sent the driver along with instructions to
meet them at the Tavern afterwards. During their walk to the tavern, they got
turned around in the dwindling light and ended up at a dead end in a run-down
section of the Lower city. Suddenly they found themselves facing a group of men
that were now blocking the entrance to the alleyway. Turning to Amondal, Doron
told her to run as fast as should could until she found the closest guard. As
she fled from the alleyway, she heard her grandfather talking calmly with the
men and offering to give them all of his money until he cried out in pain.
Unfortunately she didn't know where to go and got lost quickly. As darkness
fell, she tried to find her way back to the inn to look for help, but never
quite made it.

After spending the night huddled against the side of a building, she was able
to find a guard post to ask for help. The guards openly scoffed after looking
over the dirty little child, believing that she was trying to con them into
taking her to Upper City. Cast aside by the guards she attempted to return to
the temple to ask for help, but was turned away after the acolyte saw her pale
skin under the blotched make-up. Hunger and desperation driving her, she
attempted to sneak into Upper City to return to the Inn to find out if her
grandfather was there. However, she was soon caught and forced back into the
lower city. '

During this time, a young urchin girl had been following and watching Amondal,
as she had originally witnessed her traveling through lower city with Doron.
Taking pity the girl approached Amondal, offered her some food scraps, and
introduced herself as Kilashandra. Wary at first, Amondal soon accepted the
food and began to tell her new found friend all about what happened.
Kilashandra explained that she could lead Amondal back to the Three Old Keg
inn, to find her grandfather. Upon reaching the inn, they only found that the
old man had not returned, and despite the guards being alerted, the proprietor
caught sight of her true face and called for help, forcing the two young girls
to flee. Kilashandra led them back to the safety of her retreat in the run-down
section of lower city, promising to aid Amondal in learning the fate of her
grandfather. Over the next few weeks the two continued to search for
information about Doron, but unfortunately all they found were vague hints and
rumors. Finally they found another street urchin boy Dunny who had witnessed
the mugging, and learned that despite his willingness to give them everything
he had with him for his freedom, the men severely beat the man and left him for
dead. Before leaving the gang leader stated that "We were hired to retrieve
your signet ring and convey that Yurik expects to never see Doron or the demon
child ever again. But all the money you had with you was just a happy bonus."
After the men left, Dunny exited his hiding place and ran for help. However, by
the time the guards and a healer arrived it was too late to save the old man.

Heartbroken at the death of her grandfather, Amondal vowed to take vengeance
against her uncle. Kilashandra overheard the vow and promised to aid Amondal in
seeking retribution. She also helped to hide Amondal's supposed malady, but the
two soon found out that Amondal had been blessed with a rare gift, the ability
to change her features. Although a little frightened at first, Kilashandra knew
that her friend would never harm her and they began to use this new found
ability to their advantage. Over the next 8 years, the two were inseparable,
with Kilashandra teaching Amondal all about life in the city, tips for staying
safe through stealth, and where to find the best food.

At first, Amondal was hesitant to steal from others, only looking for ways to
subsist on handouts or the things that people discarded. However, life in
Baulder's Gate changed her perspective of the world, as she saw that the rich
cared little for the plight of the poor. Furthermore, she often witnessed that
those who were in power were willing to betray or sacrifice anyone who got in
their way. This change in perspective strengthened her vow of vengeance against
her uncle, which now included anyone who considered themselves better. She
always lost all feelings of guilt when taking something from someone who didn't
need it as much as she or one of the other less fortunate urchins did.
Throughout her time in lower city, she often helped the other urchins to
survive, sharing food and helping to create safe places for all of them to
hide.

Soon after Kilashandra turned 17 and Amondal turned 16, they found out that a
group in the lower city were rounding up those who lived in squalor, including
several of the urchin children. Rumors amongst the remaining urchins was that
the group worshipped one of the dark gods, and the captured individuals were to
be slaves or sacrifices. Appalled that the guards were doing nothing about
this, the two decided to try to find the group and put a stop to it. However,
during a planned ambush of some of the group members, things went horribly
wrong. During the ensuing encounter, Kilashandra helped Amondal reach a nearby
rooftop, but was caught in a net before she could reach Amondal's outstretched
hand. Determining that it would be safer to follow the group and free
Kilashandra with the rest of the captives, Amondal retreated to a safe
distance. Following the group was easy, especially after she snuck back and
took the visage and clothing of one of the dead group members. However, none of
the captives could have predicted what would happen when the group returned to
their home base.

Upon returning to their safe house, the group placed the captives into a
holding pen, and proceeded to drink and recover from the botched roundup.
Amondal was able to slip in a talk with Kilashandra, letting her know that she
was going to find the keys to the pen. With little effort she was able to
retrieve the keys, and headed back to let the captives out. However, as they
were making their way out of the building, the groups leader returned and
attacked. Though the captives were able to fight back and take out the drunken
guards, the leader proved to be a adept magic user. Although Amondal was able
to sneak behind and kill the leader, using his dying breath the man cast poison
spray. Kilashandra was able to push Amondal out of the way just in time, but
took the full force of the spell. With her best friend dying in her arms,
Amondal once again found herself wracked with guilt that she couldn't help to
save someone that she loved. Kilashandra's last words were "I am sorry that I
won't be able to help you to find and punish your uncle, but we will meet again
in a happier place my friend, and you can tell me all about your journey."

Amondal led the remaining captives to freedom and led the guards to the groups
hideout. She received several bounty rewards for the band of outlaws, and used
the money to procure some gear, and headed to the Gray Harbor to find passage
back to Tashalar. Hoping to purchase passage directly back to her homeland, she
found that no ships were headed that way and that her remaining coins wasn't
enough to hire a whole ship and crew. Resolved to complete her vengeance alone,
she observed the various crews for the next few days and then offered to work
for a captain on the condition that she be released upon arrival at a port in
Tashalar. Despite her clear inexperience on a ship, Captain Tori'al saw a
capable young woman before her and agreed to the terms.

For the next ten years, Amondal learned a great deal from Captain Tori'al. At
first glance, many took the captain for a merchant, but instead she was crafty
and had once been a prominent member of a thieves' guild. Sick and tired of the
infighting of the guild, she left to become a treasure hunter and sometimes
smuggler. Tori'al took Amondal under her wing, and began to think of her as the
daughter she always expected to have.

Then one day they were given a job that would bring them to a port in Tashalar.
Remembering the bargain, Tori'al stated that the ship would remain at the port
for the next 6 weeks and that Amondal was welcome to return after she concluded
whatever business she had on the pennisula.

Amondal used the next month to travel to her family estate and observe the
habits of her uncle to determine the best time to strike. She was appalled to
see that the estate was in utter ruins, with the winery shut down and the
vineyards a shadow of their once former glory. During this time she was able to
learn that her uncle was in the process of selling the estate to her
grandfathers' best friend Joran, a local merchant and good man that had once
given her a doll in her long forgotten youth. Not wanting to see the estate
fall deeper into obscurity, she waited until the transaction was completed, and
followed Yurik to an inn close to the port.

Once Yurik had secured his remaining belongings in his room, he headed down to
the common room for dinner. Amondal seized the opportunity to sneak into the
room and began to rummage through the trunks. After a while she found a false
bottom that concealed a plethora of letters that outlined the misdeeds that
Yurik had commissioned over the intervening years. In a sealed packet, she
found a letter that contained a signet ring and described the fate of Doron and
the demon child. She quickly stowed the ring and packet in with her gear, and
awaited the return of her uncle.

Upon his return to the room, Yurik was annoyed, but not surprised to see that
someone had rifled through his belongings. As he started to take an inventory
and determine if anything was missing, Amondal stepped from the shadows and
said "Hello uncle, its been a long time." Yurik spun to look at his assailant
and gasped "It can't be, I had you killed."

"You should have required proof, like you did for Doron. And now I am here to
repay you for the love and kindness that you showed us."

Yurik began to cry as he began to blubber out "No, I can pay anything you want.
Here the rest of the money from the sale of the vineyard."

"You're a simple minded fool Yurik!" Amondal spat "Nothing you could give me
would ever make up for the misery that you have caused me. But because I loved
Doron and I want you to suffer, I am going to turn you into the authorities.
And now I have all the proof I need."

As she turned to leave, Yurik snarled out "Die!" then sprang up with a dagger
in his hand and tried to stab her in the back. Reacting to the sudden attack,
Amondal quickly jerked to the side, drew free her own dagger and slammed it
into his chest with deadly precision. With eyes wide with shock, he stumbled
backward and fell to the ground dead. Thinking quickly, Amondal started to open
the trunks digging through the contents as if they had been searched in haste.
Selecting a few of the incriminating letters that were in the similar
handwriting, she tossed them into the fireplace, dumping the rest in a jumbled
heap on the floor. She then proceeded to search the dead man for his coin
purse, and stripped him of all his jewelry and adornments. Once this was
completed, she shifted her shape to that of a known criminal from Baulder's
Gate and escaped through the window.

Once she was certain that no one was following her or could observe her
shifting, Amondal reverted to the appearance she had used for the majority of
her travels with Captain Tori'al and returned to the ship. Once aboard and back
in her quarters, she studied the contents of the packet hoping to glean more
information about the man that Yurik had hired. Although there was some
information about the various activities that he Yurik had engaged him to
conduct, no names were ever used in the correspondences. With a new target to
bring to justice, Amondal set sail with the crew looking forward to her
eventual return to Baulder's Gate.
